# 2023-06-20

After a few weeks I have spent some time sending out applications for jobs. I am looking for developer and some analyst roles. Unfortunately with the market and my circumstances, I'm pressed for time to find something soon. That being said I still am working on my coding skills. I will continue to project build and focus on what technologies I know now an build off of that for web development. This will be Ruby, Ruby on Rails, JavaScript and React. I will avoid tutorials for these so that I don't fall into tutorial hell lol. I will start picking up new skills with DataCamp and their Data Engineer learning path. This will go in depth on SQL, Python and building ETL pipelines. I am interested in data engineering / analytics so this will help me gain those skills.

Today I will create an E-Commerce web application with Ruby on Rails and React. I will code for a little bit with my mentor on Wednesday.

# 2023-05-31

I'm back after taking some time off post boot camp. It was good to take a mental break but now I need to get back into it and start coding again. It was difficult to pick a starting point but I decided to create a work schedule for myself. My days will consist of project building, practice / learning and job search / networking. My final goal is to find a job in software but along the way I hope to grow my coding skills and create some cool projects and maybe even some content.

Today I had a meeting with my career advisor to talk about where I'm at with the job hunt. To be frank, it hasn't been that promising. The market has been hit pretty hard for the tech industry. I've been seeing a lot of rejections and I'm up against some pretty tough competition. My concern has been how I will stack up against experienced developers and CS majors and with the recent layoffs the number of job applications for some of these roles will increase a lot. I need to find a way to stick out and show that I am capable as a career transitioner into tech.

I set up a meeting with a mentor from Actualize on the 14th. I hope to walk into the meeting with some ideas for projects and also some ideas of what new languages and frameworks I want to learn. I need some guidance on how to prioritize learning and creating projects that will help me land a job.

### Project Building

I spent some time today brainstorming project ideas to add to my portfolio.

- Landing Page: Improve an existing landing page or create a new one. Use React. Can also be used as a form to collect data and add a backend to store the data
- Quality Management System: As an industrial engineer in manufacturing I used many platforms to collect shop floor data. It was common to see a disconnect from what manufacturers needed and what software companies were providing. I feel that I can bridge that gap and use my knowledge to build a platform that is user-friendly for manufacturers and still collects meaningful data.
- E-Commerce: This is a pretty basic idea but I think this can be a good project to get the basics down and show that I can build a robust full-stack application.

Tasks

- Tomorrow I will explore what technologies I want to use for these ideas and start laying some ground work for an MVP for each project.
- Research Jekyll and Github for creating a personal website. I want a personal website to host my projects, resume and a blog. I want to transfer this journaling into a blog and also have other posts about my personal interests.

### Practice / Learning

Since I have been on small break from coding I decided to spend the day refreshing my Ruby skills. I completed some practice problems that went over nested loops. I feel more comfortable picking it right back up faster than before. At this point I find myself trying to write less lines of code and to make it more efficient rather than just getting the answer. Using map and each methods over while loops have been helpful in my learning process.

Learning something new is daunting but I'm excited. I do struggle with what to start next. I want to learn so many new things and it can become overwhelming to determine where to start. I also want to make sure that I'm learning something that will help me in my future job but that is hard to determine. I did feel flustered today trying to figure that out. I need to focus on re-enforcing my current skills and go from there.

Skills that I want to learn include:

- Languages: Python and JavaScript
- frameworks: Express.js and Django
- Databases: PostgreSQL and MongoDB

Tasks

- Start JavaScript deliberate-practice
- Continue Python learning Codecademy
- Leetcode / HackerRank

### Job Search / Networking

Today I followed up with some applications that I have not received a response yet. I'm hoping to spend more time tomorrow job searching and completing at least 10 applications.

# Actualize Bootcamp Completed!

I completed the 4 month intensive program for full-stack software engineering. I feel very good about where I am at with the technologies I have learned and the next chapter in my journey into this new career. I will start using this repo as intended to keep track of my learning of new technologies but also include project management and job search activities. I will be using Trello along this to keep myself accountable with open task items and make sure I'm making progress in my learnings and job search. Later I hope to move this repo into a personal website. Stay tuned!

# 2023-05-18

### Learnings

The cohort is coming to an end and I've had a great opportunity to learn so much. I picked a lot of skills that will be very helpful in the future and I'm excited to grow more into them. The biggest impact on my learning was the mini capstone project we did as a group. Learning about Ruby on Rails and putting together a e-commerce backend helped me understand the ins and outs of the framework. The program really help me get in a position to continue to build my own skills. At the beginning I had no idea where to start. Now I'm able to pick up documentation for new languages/frameworks and start building and learning on my own. This will definitely help me long term as I navigate through my career.

# 2023-05-17

### Learnings

Capstone is complete! It has been a great learning time the past few days as I worked on a full stack project on my own. Going through the development process was very excited and it was great to see the application come together. I did hit a few bumps in the road as expected but I managed to find solutions through working with my instructor and using other resources. I really learned how to google problems which I think is very valuable. I also learned how to create prompts for chatgpt to pin down a solution to certain problems.

One issue I had was putting every component on one page and using the url to pull parameters and filter through an index view. I could done this in the backend but I found a way to use a url search method to pull the id I needed to use to filter through and index component and only show objects associated with that id.

Another thing I learned was planning is key. I did plan pretty well my backend but my frontend did get a little messy. I want to add more features that I know will cause changes in the backend requests that will affect how the frontend is fetching the data. Next time I will layout in more detail what I want my end goal to be and have a high level idea of what nice to have featuers I may add. I also want to make sure that whatever I build next is scalable. I updated my readme to have future add ons to the application and I hope to continue on polishing this project. I'm excited to see what is next in the queue.

# 2023-05-12

### Learnings

This week was the start of capstones. It is a big step towards finishing up the bootcamp. My application is a To Do List application. The MVP is to allow users to create profiles where they can create lists and tasks and keep track of what needs to get done for each list. The backend is pretty robust, I used Ruby on Rails and created two models (lists and todos). The requests pull only the necessary data to show to the frontend for each user when they are logged in. The frontend is a React framework that has a user-friendly interface to create lists and tasks. I feel good about the application but I'm struggling to add more to it. I want to add more features but have struggled to incorporate different gems. I'll continue to work on this on Monday with my instructor and TAs.

I decided to create this application because I enjoy organization. I have a certain way of staying organized and creating an application from scratch gave me the opportunity to build something my way. I've learned a lot about planning and asking for help from my instructors, TAs, google and even chatgpt. Working like this has been very excited and I can't wait to be part of an organization and help contribute to something bigger.

# 2023-04-28

### Learnings

This week we spent time learning more about React and also had some time doing group work. The group work was fun because we had to split up teams after the first day and work on someone else's work in progress project. This was a great lesson to understand the importance of documentation and making notes in your code.

One of the most challenging topics for me thus far has been connecting JavaScript to HTML. There are a lot of syntax for inputs, buttons, forms etc. I realized that the best way to learn is to just try for yourself. I'm in the middle of building a couple of applications. One is a task management application and another is fixing up a brewery location near me application. The more I just build and debug on my own the more comfortable I feel with the technology and material.

Lastly this week we got our cohort signed up with Prentus to keep track of job applications. My resume is pretty much finished up. I just need to completa a project with at least the MVP working and continue working on it as I apply for jobs. My background in engineering makes me hopeful to find something a little bit more advanced but the market is looking a little grim right now.

# 2023-04-21

### Learnings

This week we had more practice with React. After having to build a frontend for the blog api and mini capstone api I feel better with how the library functions. It's been really fun to see a website come together. Some of the things we added to the frontend included routes to different pages, search filter, login and signup links to appear when not logged in and flash messages. JavaScript can do a lot and I'm excited to continue to learn more about it's abilities.

OpenAI has been all over my social media and it's been interesting to see how developers are using it. I've learned to use it to help me code and find solutions to certain problems but also I've learned how other platforms are connecting to chatgpt and using it as well. Learning how to code has helped me understand more about how things are quickly developed and integrated into platforms so quickly.

I'm also interested in seeing how Jack Dorsey's new platform, blue sky, will do as it replicates Twitter but with different algorithms for the feed. It's decentralized and will have different feed algorithms that the user can pick. I saw a quick video of it and it was cool to see how a skeleton version of twitter was put together.

# 2023-04-14

### Learnings

This week we had a couple of days off and I was able to spend some time learning some SQL and learning how to create and handle databases/tables. I learned how to alter columns in postgres and running db:migrate in rails to update the changes there which was cool to see the two come together. I also created a wordle clone application that can be played in a terminal. It's a little weird with double letters but I got most of the basic features working. At this point I feel very confident with Ruby.

JavaScript has been a little more difficult than anticipated. I am struggling to see how everything comes together in React but I know this is how I felt when I started with Ruby and Rails so I know it'll take a some time to get there.

I have started thinking about jobs and what role I would like. It's an exciting process and I feel ready to start a role. I think the best way to learn is to jump right in and making things happen. So I hope that I can find a company that is willing to give me that chance. I'm interested in backend development so I would like to focus more on backend technologies like SQL, APIs and Data Structure.

I also feel pretty good with keeping up with algorithms and doing leetcode and hackerrank.

# 2023-04-05

### Learnings

This week we had some practice with HTML and CSS. I have a repo for creating a vanilla HTML/CSS webpage. I explored different techniques and styling tips. We also spent some time whiteboarding and practicing the process of explaining how to solve a problem and writing out the code for it.

We also spent time preparing for job searching. I enjoyed looking for opportunities and seeing job descriptions that not only make sense to me now but I also feel like I am ready and capable to do some of the jobs. I know that getting the first job will be difficult but I'm ready to take on that challenge.

# 2023-03-31

### Learnings

This week I had my own personal project and decided to do a Todo list application. I'm starting to feel comfortable getting an application up and running and getting all the models and associations working together.

#### Half Way Point!

I'm half way done with my bootcamp and I feel like it's been going by pretty fast. We've covered a lot and I feel pretty good about where I am with Ruby, Rails, HTML and CSS. I also feel comfortable learning new technologies. I've been interested in backend stuff like Django, MongoDB, etc.

The areas I feel less confident in are probably the authentication and testing part. I still think I need to dive into that a little more and gain a better understanding.

#### Where do I see myself?

Coming into the bootcamp I thought I would enjoy backend more but right now I'm still not sure what kind of role I would like. After this week I really enjoyed frontend and using bootstrap but I also enjoy databases.

# 2023-03-24

### Learnings

#### Bootstrap

I was a big fan of bootstrap to quickly put together a pretty elegant site. I really enjoyed the documentation and how quick you can get things up and running. Although I do see its creative limitations.

#### Pulling paramaters

It was tricky to pull parameters from different pages into another. I still don't fully get it but I feel a lot better after working as a team on it. Seeing it come together as a group was great. I'll definitely need to practice this aspect of rails.

#### Git and Github pull requests

It feels great to build on what I have already learned about certain topics. I feel very comfortable using git and github now. Learning to do pull requests was tricky at first but after deliberately practicing I got the hang of it. I did run into some issues with my github account and authentication.

I reached out to the TA for help and was able to regenerate my token to get my commits and pull requests done correctly. It used to continually ask for my password but after generating a new token and making sure the expiration date was set correctly I got it to work.

#### [First Team Project](https://github.com/mikemccomb/air-bnb-app)

This week I had my first team project and I was very lucky to have a great team. I learned how pull requests are done live and how important it is to communicate what is being worked one. I learned a lot about creating models and views in erb and using bootstrap. I also learned to keep things within a scope. It's easy to divert and do too much which can really break the code everyone is working one.

Making things come together as a team was very satisfying. I also appreciated how we were able to mob program tough issues and come together to find a solution.

Something I would have done differently is giving ourselves time to double check our pull requests and being more descriptive with what we did each pull. In a real work environment I can see this being an issue. Our last pull missed a chunk of code that was worked on for a long time but overall we did communicate pretty well. In my past life documentation was crucial for revision changes and I see the need to bring that detailed documentation aspect of my career into pull requests.

# 2023-03-10

### Learnings

#### Understanding HTTP requests and debugging

I had a hard time understanding how HTTP requests worked and debugging was not straight forward.

I found out that the terminal also has error codes which made debugging a lot easier. After a few debugging sessions I started getting the hang of HTTP requests especially for ensuring that the CRUD actions are working and populating the database correctly.

#### Testing Rails

I still don't fully understand the syntax of the testing code. At first seeing all the failed tests in my terminal was a lot to take in but it definitely helped me understand the connections of each file.

I got a lot of help from my instructor and really appreciated being thrown into all the erros because debugging is a great way to learn how things work. As an industrial engineer I've had to troubleshoot machines and doing so I became very knowledge about them. Same goes for software which has been a fun experience.

### 4Ds (Deliberate Practice, Decomposition, Discovery, Debugging)

This week I focused on debugging with the rails testing portion and also deliberate practice. I have gotten very comfortable with Ruby and being able to solve algorithms pretty well. I'm hoping to finish up Ruby's practice problem sets and then move to JavaScript.
